Skip to content
Microdosing Strength Training: How Speede Nets You More Gains In A Fraction Of The Time
July 27, 2022

“The trouble is, you think you have time.” -Buddha

We’ve all heard trainers, fitness influencers, and gym rats give the same tired, “what’s your excuse?” speech before, right? Although this might be coming from a good place to get people motivated, the truth is…a lot of us are just really busy.

We have families, full time jobs, and a packed schedule. Thereactually ARE a lot of genuine reasons why someone might have less time to fit exercising into their busy life — and that’s okay. It’s just a reality for many people.

That said, where they have a point is that health IS wealth. We all know we need to make time for health and fitness…the trick is just how do we do that practically without cutting out something else that may be important, too?

Traditionally, most programs, classes, technology and offerings that guarantee less time are almost always on the back end also guaranteeing less results, too. What you gain in time you compromise in results. That’s why most are right to have a skeptical view of health and fitness services that sell minimal time investments.

Not so fast. Enter Speede.



Less Time AND More Results

Can we really have our cake and eat it, too?

That’s right. Not only does Speede not compromise any results while saving you time — it actually helps you squeeze even more results out of your efforts.

But how exactly does that work?

See, Speede was designed by a team of trainers, strength & conditioning coaches, rehab specialists, and sport scientists, a.k.a. people whose jobs are literally on the line if results are at all compromised. This isn’t another tech company with no knowledge of health, fitness & performance looking to capitalize. Speede was engineered with the goal of helping people reach their full potential first…it just so happens that the same technology is so effective it can save you some serious time.



How It Works

Speede is a multi-modal trainer unlike any other piece of equipment you’ve seen before. The sauce is in the isokinetic and eccentric modes and this is how you’re going to achieve this unheard of more results/less time balance.

The way isokinetic mode works is that you’re going to be putting everything you have into the machine force-wise and it’s going to match you throughout the entire set,l effectively adapting its resistance level to what gets imputed.

This means that at every second, you’re forced to give max effort, which means maximum metabolic demands and muscular recruitment. The net effect from these things is more strength, muscle growth, fat loss, and injury prevention.

This is because traditional lifting (which we still encourage) has a point of maximal resistance at just ONE joint angle in the range of motion. Take the bench press for an example. We’ve all know the sticking point or the reversal of motion from negative (down/eccentric) to positive (up/concentric) that’s most challenging.

Now that you can picture that, imagine an entire rep like that. Now imagine multiple reps in one set. It’s pretty easy to see how there would be an increased demand on the body, which means increased results.

The same goes with eccentric mode. Whereas isokinetic mode gets you full-range recruitment, we also know that we are at least 40% stronger on the eccentric portion of movements, according to research. Eccentric mode allows us to do negative (downward) only movements that are overloaded with more weight than we could concentrically move.

All this just to say Speede has multiple modes to challenge you to get stronger.



How Does That Translate To Time Savings?



You’re probably wondering how that equates to you saving time. It’s actually simpler than you’d think.




If you picture the aforementioned concepts (we also recommend watching one of our videos, too), you can get an idea of the challenge Speede provides.




That maximal effort that you’re giving on isokinetic mode throughout the full range of motion means you’re going to put much more into every rep compared to traditional reps. More (positive) tissue damage, metabolic stress, and physiological demand for one rep means it’s going to take you far less time to get to the same place (farther really) you would have gotten with traditional training alone.




The same goes for eccentric mode. By overloading the range of motion at its strongest points, you’re not limited by being less strong on the concentric portion.  This means you can increase the intensity by driving the load.




That’s really what it’s all about. There are simply two ways to increase the challenge of your workouts…



You can increase volume — which means more reps and more time.


Or you can increase intensity — which means more challenge in less time. And THAT is what Speede is about.



High intensity, low volume, more results, less time.




More time with your family, more time for work, more time to do the things you love, and more time for yourself.