Skip to content
Ask The Athletes: What Pro Athletes Are Saying About Speede’s Science
July 27, 2022

We always say, athletes know their body better than anyone else. While Speede absolutely has a scientific foundation from which it has been built, it’s always helpful to hear what real world athletes who’ve tried the technology think about their experience.




This is similar to the decades old idea about being the NASA scientist vs. the astronaut. One understands everything from a logistical perspective. The other gets to understand it through an experiential perspective. We do our best to help you understand from all perspectives.




This not only can help you get an idea for what Speede is and how it feels, but also spark ideas on how it’s already being used in the trenches to help athletes of the highest level.




“Intense, crazy, unbeatable…it was unreal.” -Justin Simmons, Safety; Denver Broncos




If you’re totally new to Speede, just know that comments like Simmons’ above are the norm. It really is unlike anything you’ve experienced before. But why is that? What is it about Speede that makes it so unique compared to other resistance training machines?






“Obviously we have free weights and with that your first few reps are gonna be a lot easier than your last few. But with Speede it’s like a max rep every single time, so it’s a completely different experience.” -Marquez Valdez-Scantling, Wide Receiver; Kansas City Chiefs




What Valdez-Scantling is describing is the isokinetic technology behind Speede. With maximal strength isokinetic training, the machine delivers resistance that adapts to your own strength. This means when you put maximal force into the machine, it gives you maximal force back. As you fatigue, it fatigues-perfectly matching your resistance.




Russian scientists proved that isokinetic training stimulated muscle activity better than any other form of resistance training. This concept can be seen in Supertraining by Yuri Verkoshansky, long-regarded as one of the Bibles of sports training.




The net effect from this stimulation is more tissue stress, more neurological stress, and more metabolic stress (e.g. hormones) that create more results in less time.

And athletes are feeling first-hand how Speede is translating on the field, on the court, and in the octagon, too.

I




“You saw when I was in there doing the lunges, building a really strong base. From the bottom of my feet all the way up through my arms, shoulders, core-every single ounce of my body was trying to hold onto that bar.” -Michael Chandler, Top UFC Contender

 




That’s right-with Speede, literally every rep becomes a challenge to recruit your entire body to get the task done. Speede then takes this training supercharge and quantifies it in real time so you can measure your strength, as well as watch yourself get stronger and stronger through your training.




“The data is amazing. It takes the subjectivity out of it and you can see where you’re at. The numbers won’t lie. That’s something you ALWAYS want as an athlete.” -Mason Plumlee, Center; Charlotte Hornets

 

Not only that, but by squeezing more results out of every rep, we can save time. The unique performance technology provides an abundance of results by allowing us to consolidate maximal strength work into minimal time, but this same time savings means we can spend that time on recovery, mobility, or simply enjoying life in general.

Speaking of recovery and mobility, variations of isokinetic and eccentric training have big time implications on improving rehab outcomes, bulletproofing you from injuries, as well as cutting down on return to play (reconditioning) timeframes.




“Speede helps you maximize and push your body the best way you can, to get that physical and mental edge that you need.”

-Jaylon Johnson, Chicago Bears




Whether it be from championship-caliber fighters to NBA vets all the way to younger NFL players, Speede is making a difference at the elite level of every sport in a multitude of ways.




Strength, explosiveness, overall performance, rehabilitation, and longevity are ubiquitous traits across all sports. Speede’s ability to positively check every single box while also saving some serious time makes it a must in every athlete’s arsenal.