Skip to content
Privacy Policy
California - Privacy Policy
Nevada - Privacy Policy

Last Updated: September 25, 2022

Purpose of this Privacy Policy

This Privacy Policy aims to give you information on how Speede Fitness LLC (“Speede,” “Company,” or “we”) collects and processes your personal information through your use of our website and app, including all websites and apps that link to this Privacy Policy. This Privacy Policy also applies to the information we collect when you use our products and services or when you interact with our sales team or customer service specialists. Our website, apps, and products and services are not meant for children. We do not knowingly collect data from children.

It is important that you read this Privacy Policy together with any other privacy notice or fair processing notice we may provide on specific occasions when we are collecting or processing personal information about you, so that you are fully aware of how and why we are using your data. This Privacy Policy supplements the other notices and is not intended to override them.

Speede wants you to be familiar with how we collect, use, and disclose information. This Privacy Policy describes our practices in connection with information that we collect:

Through our website at http://speede.fit (the “Site”);
Through the fitness equipment made available by us for your use in workouts (the “Equipment”);
Through the software applications made available by us for use on or through computers and mobile devices (the “Apps”);
Through our social media pages and apps located at instagram.com/speede.fit/, and other social media pages that we control from which you are accessing this Privacy Policy (collectively, our “Social Media Pages”); and
Through HTML-formatted e-mail messages that we send to you that link to this Privacy Policy.

Collectively, we refer to the Site, the Equipment, the Apps, and our Social Media Pages as the “Services.”

Changes to the privacy notice and your duty to inform us of changes

It is important that the personal information we hold about you is accurate and current. Please keep us informed if your personal information changes during your relationship with us.

We reserve the right to update and change this Privacy Policy at any time without notice to you. We encourage you to frequently check this page for any changes to stay informed. Historic versions of this Privacy Policy may be obtained by contacting us at support@speede.fit.

Third-Party Links

Our website and apps may include links to third party websites, plugins, and applications. Clicking on those links or enabling those connections may allow third parties to collect or share information about you. We do not control these third-party websites and are not responsible for their privacy statements. When you leave our website, we encourage you to read the privacy notice of every website you visit.

Questions or Complaints

You have the right to make a complaint at any time to the supervisory authority for data protection issues in your jurisdiction. We would, however, appreciate the chance to deal with your concerns before your supervisory authority, so please contact first at support@speede.fit in order to come to an amicable resolution of your issue.

THE DATA WE COLLECT ABOUT YOU

PERSONAL INFORMATION

“Personal Information” is information that identifies you as an individual or relates to you as an identifiable individual. Personal Information does not include data where the identity has been removed (anonymous data). You do not need to provide us Personal Information in order to use the Equipment or other Services. However, if you create an account for the Services, Personal Information we may collect directly from you and indirectly about you includes:

Name;
Postal address (including billing and shipping addresses);
Telephone number;
E-mail address;
Credit and debit card number;
Username;
Unique identifier assigned to your Equipment;
Equipment use history and metrics, including frequency and length of workouts, workout start and end times, exercises performed, the number of sets and repetitions for each exercise, the amount of weight lifted, your height and weight, age (date of birth), and gender or sex will be associated with your profile if you are logged in while using the Equipment;
Fitness goals and preferences;
Profile picture;
Certain Personal Information from your social media account that you share with us if you connect your social media account to your Services account with us, including social media account ID, your name, e-mail address, photo, list of social media contacts, and any other information that may be or you make accessible to us when you connect your social media account to your Services account;
Other users with whom you may share Equipment;
Other users with whom you connect and interact through the Services and information about your interactions; and
Information transmitted by third-party devices that you choose to connect to, and to share data with, the Equipment, Apps, or other Services, such as heart rate monitors, wearable technology, and fitness accessories containing sensors.

We may collect, use, store, and transfer different kinds of Personal Information about you which we have grouped into categories as follows:

Identity Data includes first name, maiden name, last name, username, or similar identifier, marital status, title, date of birth, and gender.
Contact Data includes billing address, mailing address, e-mail address, and telephone numbers.
Financial Data includes bank account and payment card details.
Transaction Data includes details about payments to and from you and other details of products and services you have purchased from us.
Technical Data includes internet protocol (IP) address, your login information, browser type, and version, time zone setting and location, browser plug-in types and versions, operating system and platform, and other technology on the devices you use to access this website.
Profile Data includes your username and password, purchases or orders made by you, your interests, preferences, feedback, and survey responses.
Product Profile includes your health and exercise data, including sleep and nutritional data or other physical patterns or rhythms from your workouts or fitness goals. It may also include information you share about your workouts or fitness goals, such as videos of a workout. We may use information that you share to create a profile of your aspirations, goals, and accomplishments to provide you with suggestions to help you reach the next level in your fitness challenge.
Usage Data includes information about how you use our website, apps, products, and services.
Marketing and Communications Data includes your preferences in receiving marketing from us and our third parties and your communication preferences.
Social Media Application Data includes your public profile information, your social media connections, photos, and “likes.”
Geolocation Information may be recorded when you use certain features of our apps, which may be uploaded to your profile when synced with your account.

We also collect, use, and share aggregated data, such as statistical or demographic data for any purpose. Aggregated data may be derived from your Personal Information, but is not considered Personal Information in law, as this data does not directly or indirectly reveal your identity. For example, we may aggregate your usage data to calculate the percentage of users accessing a specific website feature, data entered when using the Speede Sites, pages most frequently accessed, browser type, links users click on, and other similar information. However, if we combine or connect aggregated data with your Personal Information, so it can directly or indirectly identify you, we treat the combined data as Personal Information which will be used in accordance with this Privacy Policy.

IF YOU FAIL TO PROVIDE PERSONAL INFORMATION

Where we need to collect Personal Information by law, or under the terms of a contract we have with you, if you fail to provide that data when requested, we may not be able to perform the contract we have or are trying to enter into with you (for example, to provide you with goods or services). In this case, we may have to cancel a product or service you have with us, but we will make reasonable efforts to notify you if this is the case.

HOW IS YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION COLLECTED?

We may collect the categories of Personal Information described above either directly or indirectly from various categories of sources, including the following sources:

Direct Interactions. You may give us your identity, contact, and financial data by filling in forms or by corresponding with us by post, phone, e-mail, or otherwise. This includes Personal Information you provide when you:

Apply for our products or services;
Create an account on our website;
Interact with a third-party app by following a link on our website or app;
Subscribe to our service or publications;
Request marketing to be sent to you;
Enter a competition, promotion, or survey; or
Give us feedback

Automated Technologies or Interactions. As you interact with our website or apps, we may automatically collect technical data about your equipment, browsing actions, and patterns. We collect this Personal Information by using cookies, server logs, and other similar technologies. We may also receive technical data about you if you visit other websites employing our cookies.

Cookies. When you visit a Speede Site, we may assign your computer one or more cookies to facilitate access and to personalize your experience on that Speede Site. A cookie is a small text file that we place on the user’s computer browser. We may also automatically collect information about your online activity on a Speede Site, such as the web pages you visit and the links you click, by using cookies. Most browsers automatically accept cookies, but you can usually modify your browser setting to decline cookies. If you choose to decline cookies, please note that you may not be able to sign in or use some of the interactive features offered on the Speede Sites and/or App.

Other Technologies. We may use standard Internet technology, such as web beacons and other similar technologies, to track your use of the Speede Sites. Web beacons are tiny graphics that are embedded in the webpage and are used for similar purposes as cookies to track activity. We may also include web beacons in e-mail messages or newsletters to determine whether messages have been opened and acted upon. The information we obtain in this manner enables us to customize the services we offer to visitors of Speede Sites, to deliver targeted advertisements, and to measure the overall effectiveness of our online advertising, content, programming, or other activities.

Third Parties or Publicly Available Sources. We may receive Personal Information about you from various third parties and public sources as set out below:

Technical data from the following parties:
Analytics providers such as Google based in or outside the United States.
Advertising networks based inside or outside the United States.
Search information providers based inside or outside the United States.
Contact, financial, and transaction data from providers of technical, payment, and delivery services based inside or outside the United States.
Identity and contact data from data brokers or aggregators based inside or outside the United States.
Identity and contact data from publicly available sources based inside or outside the United States.

Our Partners. We have partnered with other companies that offer health and fitness-related services and devices. If you sync your Speede account with these partners, we will share your information with them. You may choose to stop sharing information between your Speede account and these partners at any time by disconnecting the link between these accounts using the settings feature in the partner’s app.

USE OF PERSONAL INFORMATION

We will only use your Personal Information when the law allows us to. Most commonly, we will use your Personal Information for the following business purposes:

When we need to perform a contract or process transactions we are about to enter into or have entered into with you and to respond to your inquiries, fulfill your requests, complete your purchases, and provide you with related customer service.
For the provision of our products and services or the operation of our business or a third party’s business and to facilitate the social sharing functionality that you choose to use in connection with your Equipment or Service. All of our employees and contractors are required to follow our data privacy and security policies when handling Personal Information.
For providing you with customized and personalized workouts for your Speede Equipment and recommendations for other Speede health or fitness opportunities that we think may be of interest to you.
To personalize your experience on the Site by presenting products and offers tailored to you, and to facilitate social sharing functionality.
To analyze and understand our members use patterns, improve our service, and optimize the features of our services, and for other business purposes, such as data analysis, audits, fraud monitoring, and prevention, developing new products, improving or modifying our Services, identifying usage trends, determining the effectiveness of promotional campaigns, and operating and expanding business activities.
Where it is necessary for our legitimate interests (or those of a third party), and your interests and fundamental rights do not override those interests.
To send administrative information to you, such as changes to our terms, conditions, and policies, as well as marketing communications that we believe may be of interest.
When we need to comply with a legal or regulatory obligation.
Where we need to protect your (or someone else’s) interests.
Where necessary in connection with the sale, merger, acquisition, or other reorganization of our business.
For marketing purposes and to allow you to participate in sweepstakes, contests, and similar promotions and to administer these activities. Some of these activities may have additional rules containing information about how we use and disclose your Personal Information.

By creating an account with us, you agree that we may contact you for marketing and transactional purposes by phone, e-mail, mail, or text message, even if your number is on a do-not-call list or is a wireless number.

If you submit any Personal Information relating to other people to us or to our service providers in connection with the Services, you represent that you have the authority to do so and to permit us to use the information in accordance with this Privacy Policy.

For California or Nevada residents, please review the California Privacy Policy or Supplemental Nevada Privacy Policy below for additional disclosures about how we may use your Personal Information.

OPTING OUT

You can ask us or third parties to stop sending you marketing messages at any time by logging into the Speede website or app and checking or unchecking relevant boxes to adjust your marketing preferences, by following the opt-out links on any marketing message sent to you, or by contacting us with a request at any time. California and Nevada residents have additional opt out rights, which are explained in the Right to Opt-out of Sale of Personal Information section of the California Privacy Policy and the Supplemental Nevada Privacy Policy.

When you opt out of receiving these marketing messages, this will not apply to Personal Information provided to us as a result of a product or service purchase, warranty registration, product or service experience, or other transactions.

COOKIES

You can set your browser to refuse all or some browser cookies, or to alert you when websites set or access cookies. If you disable or refuse cookies, please note that some parts of this website may become inaccessible or not function properly.

CHANGE OF PURPOSE

We will only use your Personal Information for the purposes for which we collect it, unless we reasonably consider that we need to use it for another reason, and that reason is compatible with the original purpose. If you wish to get an explanation as to how the processing for the new purpose is compatible with the original purpose, please contact us.

If we need to use your Personal Information for an unrelated purpose, we will notify you and, if required, explain our legal basis for and obtain your consent to the new use.

Please note that we may process your Personal Information without your knowledge or consent, in compliance with the above rules, when it is required or permitted by law.

DISCLOSURE OF PERSONAL INFORMATION

We may disclose or share your Personal Information to entities other than Speede for a business purpose. We may, and during the last 12 months have disclosed or shared, the categories of Personal Information listed above.

We may disclose for a business purpose (or have in the last 12 months disclosed) the above-listed categories of Personal Information to the following categories of third parties or service providers:

To our third-party service providers who provide services such as website hosting, data analysis, payment processing, order fulfillment, information technology, and related infrastructure provision, customer service, e-mail delivery, auditing, and other services. We require all service providers to respect the security of your Personal Information and to treat it in accordance with the law. We do not allow our service providers to use your Personal Information for their own purposes, and we only permit them to process your Personal Information for specified purposes and in accordance with our instructions.
To allow third parties to offer or provide you goods and services through the Equipment or Service (only when you choose to link your account).
To third-party sponsors of sweepstakes, contests, and similar promotions, or for marketing purposes, including for analytics and the delivery of targeted advertising.
By you, on message boards, chat, profile pages, social media, and blogs and other services to which you are able to post information and materials. Please note, any information you post or disclose through these services will become public information.
To your friends associated with your social media account(s), to other website users, and to your social media account provider, in connection with your social sharing activity. By connecting your Services account to your social media account, you authorize us to share information with your social media account provider, and you understand that the use of the information we share will be governed by the social media Site’s privacy policy.
To the owner of Equipment that you use, when you login to your account on Equipment that you do not own; in this case, the information shared with the Equipment’s owner may include your name, e-mail, Equipment use history, metrics, and other analytical data.
To professional advisers acting as processors or joint controllers, including lawyers, bankers, auditors, and insurers based inside or outside the United States who provide consultancy, banking, legal, insurance, and accounting services.
To third parties to whom we may choose to sell, transfer, or merge parts of our business or our assets. Alternatively, we may seek to acquire other businesses or merge with them. If a change happens to our business, then the new owners may use your Personal Information in the same way as set out in this Privacy Policy.
To regulators and other authorities acting as processors or joint controllers based inside or outside the United States who require reporting of processing activities in certain circumstances.
To any other entity when required by law (e.g., in response to a court order or subpoena). We may also disclose information in response to requests from law enforcement agencies or other public agencies if we feel that such disclosure may prevent the instigation of a crime.
We may also sell your Personal Information for certain of the business purposes listed above. For California and Nevada residents, please see the California Privacy Policy and Supplemental Nevada Privacy Policy for additional information about how we may sell your Personal Information and how you may opt out of the sale of your Personal Information.

OTHER USES AND DISCLOSURES

We may also use and disclose your Personal Information as we believe to be necessary or appropriate: (a) to comply with applicable law, to respond to requests from public and government authorities, to cooperate with law enforcement, or for other legal reasons; (b) to enforce our Terms and Conditions and Terms of Service; and (c) to protect our rights, privacy, safety or property, and/or that of our affiliates, you, or others. We may use, disclose, or transfer your information to a third party in the event of any reorganization, merger, sale, joint venture, assignment, transfer, or other disposition of all or any portion of our business, assets, or stock (including in connection with any bankruptcy or similar proceedings).

OTHER INFORMATION

“Other Information” is any information that does not reveal your specific identity or does not directly relate to an identifiable individual. Other Information we may collect includes:

Browser type and version
Mobile application phone type, version, and OS
IP address
Application usage data
Machine usage data
Information collected through cookies, pixel tags, and other technologies
Demographic and other information provided by you that does not reveal your specific identity, or information that has been de-identified or aggregated in a manner that it no longer reveals your specific identity
Application version
Device identification number
Connected peripheral information
Motor data

We may use and disclose Other Information for any purpose, except where we are required to do otherwise under applicable law. In some instances, we may combine Other Information with Personal Information; in such case we will treat the combined information as Personal Information.

COLLECTION OF OTHER INFORMATION

We and our service providers may collect Other Information in a variety of ways, including:

Through your browser or device: Certain information is collected by most browsers or automatically through your computer, mobile phone, or other device, such as your Media Access Control (MAC) address, computer type (Windows or Macintosh), screen resolution, operating system name and version, device manufacturer and model, language, and Internet browser type and version. We use this information to ensure that the Site functions properly.
App usage data: When you download and use the App, we and our service providers may track and collect data such as the date and time the App on your device accesses our servers and what information and files have been downloaded to the App.
Using cookies: Cookies allow us to collect miscellaneous information such as browser type, time spent on the Site, pages visited, language preferences, and other anonymous traffic data. We use the information for security purposes, to facilitate navigation, to display information more effectively, and to personalize your experience. We also gather statistical information about use of the Site to continually improve its functionality, understand how it is used, and assist us with resolving questions about it. We may also use cookies and other technologies in online advertising to track responses to our ads. We do not collect Personal Information about your online activities over time and across third-party websites or online services, and as a result, we do not respond to browser do-not-track signals.

If you do not want information collected through the use of cookies, most browsers allow you to automatically decline cookies, or be given the choice of declining or accepting a particular cookie (or cookies) from a particular site. If, however, you do not accept cookies, you may experience some inconvenience in your use of the Site or Equipment functionality.

Using pixel tags and other similar technologies: Pixel tags (also known as web beacons and clear GIFs) may be used to, among other things, track the actions of Site users and e-mail recipients, measure the success of our marketing campaigns, and compile statistics about Site usage and response rates.
Analytics. We use third-party analytics services like Google Analytics, which use cookies and similar technologies to collect and analyze information about use of the Services and report on activities and trends. These third-party analytics services may also collect information regarding the use of other websites, apps, and online resources. You can learn about Google’s practices by going to http://google.com/policies/privacy/partners/, and opt out of them by downloading the Google Analytics opt-out browser add-on, available at https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout.
IP Address: Your IP Address is a number that is automatically assigned to your computer, mobile device, or Equipment by your Internet Service Provider. An IP Address may be identified and logged automatically in our server log files whenever a user accesses the Services, along with the time of the visit and, if applicable, the pages visited. We use IP Addresses for purposes such as calculating usage levels, diagnosing server problems, and administering the Services. We may also derive your approximate location from your IP Address.

The Services will continue to evolve to bring you new features and to implement technological advances. As a result, we may change this Privacy Policy from time to time without prior notice. Revised versions of this Privacy Policy will be posted on this Site, together with an updated effective date. By continuing to access the Services after we post any such changes, you accept the Privacy Policy as modified.

DATA RETENTION

We will only retain your Personal Information for as long as necessary to fulfill the purposes we collected it for, including for the purposes of satisfying any legal, accounting, or reporting requirements.

To determine the appropriate retention period for Personal Information, we consider the amount, nature, and sensitivity of the Personal Information, the potential risk of harm from unauthorized use or disclosure of your Personal Information, the purposes for which we process your Personal Information, whether we can achieve those purposes through other means, and the applicable legal requirements.

By law (and for tax purposes) we must keep basic information about our customers (including contact, identity, financial, and transaction data) for seven years after they cease being customers.

In some circumstances, you may ask us to delete your data. If we delete your account, your user profile will no longer be visible, and all of the information associated with your account will be permanently deleted. In some circumstances, we may anonymize your Personal Information (so that it can no longer be associated with you) for research or statistical purposes—in which case, we may use this information indefinitely without further notice to you. After your account has been deleted or your Personal Information anonymized, you may still receive promotional e-mails from us regarding new Speede products or services. You may “unsubscribe” to promotional e-mails at any time.

YOUR LEGAL RIGHTS

Under certain circumstances, you have rights under data protection laws in relation to your Personal Information. Please access the sections below to find out more about these rights.

If you are a California or Nevada resident, you may have additional consumer protection rights. Please see the California Privacy Policy or the Supplemental Nevada Privacy Policy to learn about your rights.

Request access to your Personal Information
Request correction of your Personal Information
Request erasure of your Personal Information
Object to processing of your Personal Information
Request restriction of processing your Personal Information
Request transfer of your Personal Information
Right to withdraw consent

If you are a California or Nevada resident and wish to exercise any of the rights set out above, please contact us.

NO FEE USUALLY REQUIRED

You will not have to pay a fee to access your Personal Information (or to exercise any of your other rights). However, we may charge a reasonable fee if your request is clearly unfounded, repetitive, or excessive. Alternatively, we may refuse to comply with your request in these circumstances.

WHAT WE MAY NEED FROM YOU

We may need to request specific information from you to help us confirm your identity and ensure your right to access your Personal Information or to exercise any of your other rights. This is a security measure to ensure that Personal Information is not disclosed to any person who has no right to receive it. We may also contact you to ask you for further information in relation to your request to speed up our response.

TIME LIMIT TO RESPOND

We try to respond to all legitimate requests within one month. Occasionally, it may take us longer than a month if your request is particularly complex or if you have made a number of requests. In this case, we will notify you and will keep you updated. If you are a California or Nevada resident, please see the California Privacy Policy or the Supplemental Nevada Privacy Policy for information about our timing to respond to your requests.

ADVERTISING DISCLAIMER

Speede Fitness LLC shares no affiliation with any political party or its views. Speede advertisements which may be visible on political websites are there as a result of remarketing—not a partnership, affiliation, or endorsement.

Remarketing allows Speede to display ads to people who have visited the Speede Site. When people leave the Speede Site without buying anything, remarketing helps us reconnect with them by showing relevant ads across different devices and websites. The ads simply follow the user to other Sites they visit.

GLOSSARY

LAWFUL BASIS

Legitimate interest means that we conduct and manage our business to enable us to give you the best services and products and the most secure experience. We consider and balance any potential impact on you (both positive and negative) and your rights before we process your Personal Information for our legitimate interests. We do not use your Personal Information for activities where our interests are overridden by the impact on you (unless we have your consent or are otherwise required to or are permitted by law). You can obtain further information about how we assess our legitimate interests against any potential impact on you in respect of specific activities by contacting us.

Performance of contract means processing your information where it is necessary for the performance of a contract to which you are a party or to take steps at your request before entering into such a contract.

Comply with a legal or regulatory obligation means processing your Personal Information where it is necessary for compliance with a legal or regulatory obligation that we are subject to.

YOUR LEGAL RIGHTS

Individuals that are not residents of California or Nevada have the rights described below. If you are a resident of California, information about your consumer rights can be found under the California Privacy Policy. If you are a resident of Nevada, additional information about your consumer rights can be found under the Supplemental Nevada Privacy Policy.

Request access to your Personal Information, commonly known as a data subject access request. This enables you to receive a copy of the Personal Information we hold about you and to check that we lawfully process it.

Request correction of the Personal Information that we hold about you. This enables you to have any incomplete or inaccurate data we hold about you corrected, although we may need to verify the accuracy of the new information you provide us.

Request erasure of your Personal Information. This enables you to ask us to delete or remove Personal Information where there is no good reason for us continuing to process it. You also have the right to ask us to delete or remove your Personal Information when you have successfully exercised your right to object to processing (see below), when we may have processed your information unlawfully, or when we are required to erase your Personal Information to comply with local law. Please note, however, that we may not always be able to comply with your request of erasure for specific legal reasons. We will inform you of these legal reasons, if applicable, at the time of your request.

Object to processing of your Personal Information when we are relying on a legitimate interest (or those of a third party), and there is something about your particular situation which makes you want to object to processing on this ground, as you feel it impacts your fundamental rights and freedoms. You also have the right to object when we process your Personal Information for direct marketing purposes. In some cases, we may demonstrate that we have compelling, legitimate grounds to process your information which override your rights and freedoms.

Request restriction of processing of your Personal Information. This enables you to ask us to suspend the processing of your Personal Information in the following scenarios: (a) if you want us to establish the data’s accuracy; (b) when our use of the information is unlawful, but you do not want us to erase it; (c) when you need us to hold the information, even if we no longer require it, if you need it to establish, exercise, or defend legal claims; or (d) you have objected to our use of your information, but we need to verify whether we have overriding legitimate grounds to use it.

Request the transfer of your Personal Information to you or to a third party. We will provide to you, or a third party that you have chosen, your Personal Information in a structured, commonly used, machine-readable format. Note that this right only applies to automated information which you initially provided consent for us to use, or when we used the information to perform a contract with you.

Withdraw consent at any time when we are relying on consent to process your Personal Information. However, this will not affect the lawfulness of any processing carried out before you withdraw your consent. If you withdraw your consent, we may not be able to provide certain products or services to you. We will advise you if this is the case at the time you withdraw your consent.

SHIPPING AND RETURN POLICIES

SHIPPING POLICY

All Equipment shipments require a customer signature upon delivery. The shipping company will call you before attempting to deliver your machine. A total of three attempts will be made to contact you for delivery. After three contact attempts have been made, the shipping company will make arrangements to return your machine or other order to our warehouse. The cost of return shipping and a 10% restocking fee may apply to any order returned to us.

We cannot ship to P.O. or APO Boxes for a variety of reasons. Many of our items are large and ship in boxes bigger than the post office will accept for P.O. boxes. In addition, our online order system cannot determine the exact box size required for shipping your order. Finally, other items, such as lubricant, cannot be shipped through the United States Postal Service (“USPS”) pursuant to USPS and governmental regulations.

RETURN POLICY

If you are not satisfied with the purchase of your new Equipment, you can request a return within thirty (30) days of your delivery date. Due to the size and weight of our products, Speede does not offer a refund for any shipping or delivery charges you may have paid to receive your product. All Equipment returns will incur a return shipping charge of $500, which may be deducted from any refund you may be due. Product returns may also incur additional charges for ordinary wear and tear or for damage caused by improper use, incorrect assembly, or accidents. If your Equipment is missing parts at the time your return is received in our processing center, you may also be charged a 15% restocking fee. Speede reserves the right to assess the condition of any returned product and either grant or deny a full or partial refund.

To initiate a return, please contact Customer Service at the telephone number or e-mail address below:

CUSTOMER SERVICE

CONTACT US

E-mail address: support@speede.fit
Telephone number: (800) 908-9978

Privacy, Shipping, and Returns Policy © 2022 Speede Fitness LLC, unless otherwise noted. All rights reserved.

Download