Skip to content
Accessibility

For accessibility issues, please contact our Customer Service Team at support@speede.fit or call us at (800) 908-9978.

Speede Fitness LLC is committed to providing a website that is accessible to the widest possible audience, regardless of technology or ability.

To assist in achieving our accessibility goals with respect to the http://speede.fit website, we are committed to working towards complying with all applicable standards through designing, developing, and operating our website in substantial conformance with generally recognized and accepted guidelines and/or standards for website accessibility. We regularly evaluate our website using automated accessibility assessment tools and make recommended adjustments in a timely manner.

The website is accessible to users with disabilities, including persons using a keyboard and those with visual and cognitive impairments.

Measures have been taken to ensure that you are able to:

Resize text, adjust text spacing, and change fonts by adjusting browser settings (for example, this can be done in the appearance settings in Chrome or in Firefox’s preferences).
Have sufficient color contrast on all areas of the site. You can change colors by adjusting the browser settings. Typically, this can be done in the appearance settings, such as the font and color preferences in Firefox. There are also plug-ins that work with certain browsers, such as Change Colors on Google Chrome.
Navigate the website using just a keyboard and access all interactive elements.
Skip directly to main content and skip long lists of links.
Zoom in at least 200%. Text will reflow so it can be presented without loss of information or functionality.
Use the content in your desired orientation. Both landscape and portrait layouts will work responsively with the content.
Understand page hierarchy due to proper heading structure and the reading order being set correctly.
We regularly use automated checks and manual audits to evaluate and measure the accessibility of the site.

Please be aware that our accessibility efforts are ongoing. If, at any time, you have difficulty viewing, accessing, navigating, or using the website or any content therein, or if you have any specific questions, feedback, or concerns about the accessibility of any content, feature, functionality, or any particular web page within our site, please feel free to contact our Customer Service Team at (800) 908-9978 or e-mail us at support@speede.fit with “Accessibility” in the subject line and provide a description of the issue or content you believe is not accessible or a suggestion for improvement. Please be sure to specify the web page/URL/app in your e-mail. We will work with you and will make all reasonable efforts to address your concerns to provide the information, item, or transaction you seek through an alternate communication method that is accessible for you consistent with applicable law (for example, through telephone support). Additionally, while we do not control such vendors, we strongly encourage vendors of third-party digital content to provide content that is accessible and user friendly.

We take your feedback seriously and will consider it as we evaluate ways to accommodate all of our customers and our overall accessibility policies.

Accessibility Statement © 2022 Speede Fitness LLC, unless otherwise noted. All rights reserved.

Download